<!--{
	title: 'S3 Bucket',
	tags: ['resource type', 'module', 's3'],
  description: 'Store and retrieve files from an S3 Bucket.'
}-->

## S3 Bucket Resource

This custom resource type allows you to store and retrieve files from an [Amazon S3](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/) bucket.

### Installation

In your app's root directory, type `npm install dpd-s3` into the command line. This should create a `dpd-s3` directory in your app's `node_modules` directory.

See [Installing Modules](/docs/using-modules/installing-modules.md) for details.

### Configuration

Before you can use the S3 Bucket resource, you must set the three properties on its "Config" page:

- `bucket`: The name of your S3 Bucket
- `key`: The security key of your S3 Bucket
- `secret`: The secret key of your S3 Bucket

### Usage

#### Upload <!-- ref -->

There are two ways to upload files. Both ways require HTTP access; you cannot upload files with dpd.js.

##### Direct upload 

Send a `POST` request to the url where you want to upload the file, including the file name. Set the `Content-Type` header to that of the file you are uploading and pass the file's content in the request body.

It will return a `200 OK` if the upload was successful. If there was an error, it will return the error directly from S3. This is usually in XML; see [Amazon's S3 documentation](http://aws.amazon.com/documentation/s3/) for information.

	POST /my-bucket/README.txt
	Content-Type: text/plain
	Hello, world!

	200 OK

##### Multipart upload

You can upload files directly from a browser using the `multipart/form-data` type and the `<input type="file" />` tag:

	<form action="/installer-downloads" enctype="multipart/form-data" method="post">
		<input type="file" name="upload" multiple="multiple" />
		<button type="submit">Upload</button>
	</form>

To send a multipart request manually, send a `POST` request to the url where you want to upload the file, *not* including the file name. The `Content-Type` header must be `multipart/form-data`. Set the request body according to the [multipart/form-data standard](http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.13.4.2).

If the upload was successful and there is a `Referer` header on the request (e.g. if it was submitted as a form from a browser), the response will redirect to the referer. Otherwise, it will return `200 OK`. If there was an error, it will return the error directly from S3. This is usually in XML; see [Amazon's S3 documentation](http://aws.amazon.com/documentation/s3/) for information.

#### Retreiving files <!-- ref -->

To download a file, send a `GET` request to the url where the file exists. 

	GET /my-bucket/README.txt

	200 OK
	Content-Type: text/plain
	Hello, world!

#### Deleting files <!-- ref -->

To delete a file, send a `DELETE` request to the url where the file exists.

	DELETE /my-bucket/README.txt

	200 OK

This can also be done with dpd.js:

	dpd.mybucket.del('README.txt', function(response, error) {
		// Do something
	});

### Events

The S3 Bucket Resource has three events:

- `On Upload`: Executed before a file is uploaded to S3.
- `On Get`: Executed before a file is downloaded from S3.
- `On Delete`: Executed before a file is deleted.

### Event API

#### url <!-- api -->

The URL of the request. Does not include the resource's name; if the request URL is `/my-bucket/README.txt`, the `url` property will be `/README.txt`.

#### fileSize  <!-- api -->

Only available in `On Upload`. The size of the file, in bytes.

		// On Upload
		// Set a limit on file size
		if (fileSize > 1024*1024*1024) { // 1GB
			cancel("File is too big; limit is 1GB");
		}

#### fileName <!-- api -->

Only available in `On Upload`. The name of the file that is being uploaded.

		// On Upload
		dpd.uploads.post({ filename: fileName, creator: me.id }, function() {})